---
title: Intro to QDA
---

## Qualitative research for social science

Qualitative research seeks to understand a research problem from the perspectives of the subject rather than the researcher. 

Examples of qualitative research methods include *participant observation*, *in-depth interviews*, and *focus groups*. 

These methods generate data that can be field notes, audio recordings, video recordings, and transcripts.

<br>

### Why *qualitative*?
Qualitative research is most effective in studying the behaviors, beliefs, opinions, emotions, and relationships of individuals, and social contexts of particular populations, including social norms, socioeconomic status, gender roles, ethnicity, and religion (Mack et al., 2005, p. 1).

<br>

### Is qualitative research scientific?

Qualitative research is *scientific*. 

> It 
> * seeks answers to a question
> * systematically uses a predefined set of procedures to answer the question
> * collects evidence
> * produces findings that were not determined in advance
> * produces findings that are applicable beyond the immediate boundaries of the study 
> (Mack et al., 2005, p. 1)

<br>

### Then how does qualitative research differ from quantitative research?

<br>


### Qualitative data analysis

<br> 


**Reference**

Deterding, N. M., & Waters, M. C. (2021). Flexible coding of in-depth interviews: A twenty-first-century approach. *Sociological methods & research*, 50(2), 708-739. <br>
Dey, I. (2003). *Qualitative data analysis: A user friendly guide for social scientists*. Routledge. <br>
Mack, N., Woodsong, C., MacQueen, K., Guest, G., & Namey E. (2005). *Qualitative research methods: A data collector’s field guide.* Family Health International. <br>
Patton, M. Q. (2002). *Qualitative research and evaluation methods*. Beverly Hills, CA: Sage publications.
